[Music]
ten signs your body's in trouble your
body you've only got the one and it
needs to last you your whole life no
pressure huh your body has a way of
telling you when it's happy when it's
sad or when it desperately needs your
attention and there are certain signs
that if it's giving them to you meaning
you'd better do some investigation and
you really won't expect some of these if
you notice any of these signs they might
indicate something is wrong next time
you see your doctor be sure to ask about
it better to be safe than sorry right
number one pink feet normally your feet
are pretty much the same color as your
body even if you use any of those handy
skin creams to pamper yourself lotion
may make your feet feel soft and
comfortable but it shouldn't change
their color next time your feet are bare
take a look at them do they look really
pink is the skin thin and wrinkled are
they really hard and painful if so you
might want to get a blood test to check
your blood sugar levels discolored and
distressed feet can indicate a metabolic
problem such as diabetes which doctor
should you see an endocrinologist will
check your blood sugar and hormone
levels too uncomfortable hugs
who doesn't like hugs right but unless
you're really into it being tied up or
crushed isn't much fun has someone ever
hugged you and made you feel like you
were being squeezed unusually tightly
tighter than they're actually trying to
hug you or did it feel like they were
tying you up around the waist body or
legs with ropes and chains if this
happens to you it might be a sign of a
disease called multiple sclerosis or MS
if you have unpleasant sensations in
your arms and legs like you're wearing
invisible gloves or shoes that can be a
warning sign to the feeling might just
be irritating or it could be very
painful but you should still pay
attention to it which doctor should you
see a neurologist multiple sclerosis is
a disease that affects your nerves
the sooner you catch it the better
three thinning eyebrows
throughout history thin eyebrows have
been particularly fashionable in some
cultures while some people prefer big
bushy eyebrows plucking and styling your
eyebrows can make a really bold fashion
statement but if you notice your
eyebrows becoming naturally thinner
without any help from your tweezers you
should see a doctor this may be one of
the symptoms of hypothyroidism a
condition that can lead to feelings of
tiredness constipation
depression and weight gain if you're
pregnant hypothyroidism can be
especially dangerous leading to
developmental delays and potential birth
defects witch doctor should you see an
endocrinologist will test your thyroid
hormone balance number for swollen toes
we're back to the feet which can really
tell us a lot about our bodies take a
look at your feet if you have fat or
swollen toes or a few toes look like
sausages
talk to your doctor this symptom might
signal sir iock arthritis which can
result in damage skin and pain witch
doctor should you see a dermatologist
and/or a Rheumatologist can check for
the condition and prescribe medication
to treat the symptoms getting you back
on your feet in no time
fun fact toes may seem like an
evolutionary leftover that we don't
really mean anymore but it's unlikely
they'll be going away anytime soon even
your pinky toe helps keep your balance
when you walk or run the only way we'd
lose our toes is if they actively
threatened our survival evolution
doesn't just shed inconvenient or
useless things if it did no one would
ever get appendicitis
number five loss of appetite we've all
got to eat even when we're dieting
trying to shed a few pounds a diminished
appetite can seem like a blessing but it
might be the opposite if you experience
a sudden loss of appetite and notice
that you're also losing weight it may be
a symptom of a metabolic disorder this
may be genetic or the result of not
getting proper nutrition over an
extended period if you also have acid
reflux this may be a sign of a gastro
esophageal reflux
disease where stomach acid rises back up
through your esophagus that's the tube
connecting your mouth and stomach
leading to pain and a pretty bad taste
in your mouth yuck
which doctor should you see a
gastroenterologist specializes in
nutrition and the effects of food or
lack thereof on your system going on a
diet before and during a regimen of
restricting the foods you eat consult a
licensed nutritionist and your doctor
number six ET skin we all each sometimes
and it can feel so good to get in a good
scratch it may be one of the most
satisfying sensations you'll ever
experience if however you have a
persistently itchy skin that just won't
let up that could be a problem in fact
it could be a sign of diabetes relax
before you panic consider some other
explanations
hichy spots are often caused by insect
bites or mild allergic reactions to a
new lotion or low-quality fabric if none
of these possibilities explain the itch
however ask your doctor for an
examination witch doctor should you see
an endocrinologist can test your blood
sugar levels to screen for diabetes
did you know scratching an itch doesn't
actually get rid of the edge all it does
is distract the brain from the itching
sensation with a new feeling the scratch
in fact a 2014 study conducted by the
Center for the Study of
itch at the Washington University School
of Medicine in st. Louis showed that
scratching released the hormone
serotonin in the brain actually
enhancing the itching sensation in mice
anyway number seven you hate being
inside maybe you just like the big
outdoors but if you're one of those
people who always asks to open the
windows in public transportation you
have trouble breathing indoors or you
feel claustrophobic at work without a
window open you should have your heart
tested to exclude the risk of cardiac
failure
your thyroid might also need to be
tested because hypothyroidism can cause
this kind of thing if you feel stuffy
all the time you might be suffering from
heat intolerance where your body doesn't
regulate heat properly this can result
from medication excess caffeine use
thyroid problems or some other condition
like MS witchdoctor should you see see a
cardiologist first to test your heart
then follow up with an endocrinologist
to check your thyroid if neither of
these turns up anything consult your
doctor to see if there might be some
other cause number 8
you hate open windows this is basically
the opposite of intolerance of being
indoors if you can't stand open windows
or you're cold even in the summer you
should get your thyroid checked your
body might lack iodine and this
deficiency may lead to hypothyroidism
cold intolerance can also result from
anemia lacking sufficient iron in your
diet fibromyalgia or vasoconstriction
witch doctor should you see an
endocrinologist can test your thyroid if
that checks out
consult your primary care physician for
other potential causes number 9 sudden
onset of kleptomania whoa there Robin
Hood a sudden ignorance of the law and
the wish to steal something small even
if you can easily pay for it may be the
first sign of dementia especially if
you've been a law-abiding citizen all
your life unfortunately dementia and
other such conditions can be very subtle
and it can be hard to admit that there
might be a problem let alone ask for
help
watch yourself carefully and pay
attention to your relatives particularly
the elderly people with dementia might
not even realize they have it and they
need our help to get it looked after
which doctor should you see since the
problem may be physical or psychological
consult with a range of behavioral
experts make an appointment with a
neurologist to check for signs of
dementia and see a therapist or
psychiatrist to learn some cognitive
behavioral techniques to deal with any
sudden urges to steal things
if the doctors do identify the onset of
dementia follow their instructions to
minimize its impact make sure you ask
for help even if you think you don't
need it
number 10 changes in your nails
it's those feet again warning us of
impending trouble but this time your
hands might help too if you notice your
nails changing shape such as becoming
thicker and wider this may indicate that
you have lung or heart problems this
condition called nail clubbing is not
exactly a disease it's a symptom of a
pathological process in your body that
can be caused by multiple diseases
mostly of the lungs or heart but
sometimes of the intestines liver or
thyroid which doctors should you see see
a cardiologist for a full physical
workup and follow up with your primary
care physician to identify other
potential causes nail clubbing is
definitely not normal and could signify
some serious problems here's some bonus
trivia the Greek physician Hippocrates
who is often called the father of
medicine is frequently credited with
being the first to identify and document
nail clubbing as a sign of an underlying
disease which he did nearly 2500 years
ago as such the condition is sometimes
referred to as Hippocratic fingers we
bet he's thrilled do you know of any
other unusual changes in your body that
suggests an underlying health condition
tell us about it in the comments and
don't forget to Like share and subscribe
for more health tips from Brightside